Next up an important piece of terminology that comes up all the time in JavaScript.
There's a million blog posts and YouTube videos written about callbacks callbacks are simply functions
that are passed into other functions to be invoked within the outer function.
So we've already done this we've seen it.
We just didn't call it a callback.
If we go back to this example call twice.
We wrote a function called twice which accepts a single function and it executes it two times.
In this example the function we pass in laugh is a callback.
It is called within this outer function called twice.
So anytime we pass a function to another function and it's executed in that function we would call it
a callback and callbacks are extremely extremely common in JavaScript.
We can write code like we did here.
We can write our own function that accepts callbacks but also tons of the built in methods.
The really useful ones in JavaScript expect you to pass in a callback if you want to make a request
to load data from Facebook API.
That request takes time.
We pass in a callback function that will be called when the request is finished.
When the data is back if we want to run code when a user clicks on a button on a page or when they hover
over a photo the code that we write to set that up requires us to pass in a callback function which
will be executed when the user hovers or when the user clicks.
So in this video I just want to show you some of that.
This is not the one video on callbacks.
This is an intro to the general concept.
Then in the next couple sections we'll see tons of them.
There are lots of built in array methods and we're going to spend a good amount of time covering them.
They all accept callbacks so it's not some foreign crazy concept.
We've already been doing it.
We just haven't been using the term callback.
This is the callback the function that we pass in the one thing that we haven't talked about is much
with callbacks or with higher order functions.
Is that often we use anonymous functions when we call them.
We pass in an anonymous function rather than an existing function like laugh.
There's nothing wrong with this but sometimes we just need a one time use function.
We don't need it to be a standalone function in which case we use an anonymous function.
I'm saying function a lot starting to sound weird to me but let me show you an example of something
we haven't seen in JavaScript.
There is a method called set timeout set timeout will run a certain block of code or a function of code
after a certain number of milliseconds or seconds we pass in a number of milliseconds like five thousand
which is five seconds but the first argument we need to pass it is a function so a function to run and
then how long to wait before it runs.
If you look at the documentation on empty in this first argument it's called function.
In this case a function to be executed after the timer expires.
That's what we need to pass it like function Grumps.
Good old crumpets function but instead of constant logging let's do something more obvious we will alert.
If you don't remember.
Alert.
Passing something in here like gibberish.
I'll go over to my actual browser window where it is and I get an alert.
It pops up one of the most irritating things ever when a website actually uses alerts.
I don't recommend you do it but it's more obvious easier for us to see compared to a console log all
alert something like go away.
And then if I wanted to call this function after five thousand milliseconds I could pass it in right
here using a name Grumps.
That's the name of my function and if I run this code I'll refresh my page.
I have the browser page open after 5 millisecond or 5 seconds almost there.
There we go.
It alerts so what we've seen is that said timeout accepts the function.
This is not a function we wrote said time out.
It comes in the browser for free.
It's built in.
It expects us to pass in a function and a number of milliseconds.
And in our example we wrote a function and passed it in but we can also do it in line using an anonymous
function.
So remember these anonymous functions look like this function and then no name.
It's just function and this is a way of saying after 5000 milliseconds run this chunk of code it doesn't
have a name.
I'm not going to use it anywhere else if I simply wanted to say alert.
Welcome.
This is a one time thing.
I don't need this to be a reusable function that I can call over and over somewhere else.
Then I don't have to make it a reusable function I don't have to make it a named function or save it
to a variable I can just pass in this function expression.
And this is a very common pattern set time out not the set time apart but passing in an anonymous function
to another function.
So we'll see this quite a bit.
This function will be called after five thousand seconds 5000 milliseconds.
I should have done 3000 5000 takes a little bit too long.
Don't know what to say.
OK there it is.
This page says Welcome.
So that's one example.
I'm going to show you another example.
This one's a little bit more advanced it involves some stuff we haven't seen before.
But it's also a bit more exciting.
We're going to write some code that will run when we click a button on the page.
So we need to add a button.
First of all so in our HDMI page we'll add a button inside the body.
We haven't covered anything around DOM manipulation events so this is a preview of something we'll spend
a lot of time on later on in the course.
But a lot of button here that says don't click ME
AND THEN SOMETHING I NEED TO DO THAT'S IMPORTANT IS MOVE MY SCRIPT tag down to the end of my body because
this script needs to run after all of the content is loaded after the button is on the page.
If I left it here it would run first before the button was on the page.
Now again the takeaway here is not the actual syntax it's not the methods the code I'm going to show
you it's the pattern of passing in a callback.
So in order to run code when this button is clicked I need to start by selecting it.
This is something we will spend time on later on so don't get hung up on it but I'll make a variable
called B10 and I'm going to select that button document that query selector pass in a string of button
and this will select the button for me that was here.
Now the way I run code when we click on that button is by calling a method called add event listener
on the button.
I'm going to listen for a click and then this second part is the most important piece.
This is a function to run when the button is clicked so we could define a separate function like Grumps
and I could pass that in right here.
Then when I click on that button Grumps will be called.
We can play around with it.
Here's my button up and get an error because I didn't uncommon Grumps.
Try that again refresh the page I click I get my alert and this approach works.
If we needed Grumps somewhere else if we wanted to do something with it.
But if this is just a one time thing I'm only using it here.
I can add in an anonymous function.
This is my callback function Grumps was a callback as well.
This is a different callback.
This one is anonymous and all alert.
Why did you click me.
And if we test this out refresh the page click.
Don't panic about any of this syntax query SELECT YOUR document add event listener.
Just worry about this part.
We're passing in a function just like we did right here.
We pass a function into another function and the typical pattern you'll see a lot is to use an anonymous
function rather than declaring it and giving it a name.
If you don't need to reuse it if you don't need to do that it's a one time thing.
Just pass it in as an anonymous function.
In fact this is such a common thing that there is an even shorter way of doing this.
A shorter syntax that we'll see in the next section.
So this is just an intro to callbacks.
The idea of passing a function in to another function the term that describes this function we pass
in is callback.
All right.